50d0d24e72ddIn the relentless race for innovation and sustainable growth, organizations have always looked to technology to be the catalyst for driving business results. Whether the objective was focused on getting data as the single source of truth to determine analytics capabilities for decision making, reducing costs through process optimization, or driving business continuity for economic survival in a competitive environment, technology has fueled value creation through business transformation.

Let us look at the broader definition of business transformation. A business transformation is all about making fundamental changes to operations and models, creating digital business models to realize significant gains in value. It is about aligning decision-making, operations and data to anticipate and respond to disruptions, changing customer needs and new market opportunities. Business transformation tools in a digital era include a clear digital transformation strategy, hybrid cloud architecture, deep analytics and a suite of advanced technologies: artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain, automation, edge computing and the Internet of Things (IoT).

The past two years have accelerated the rate of change digital transformation clients are experiencing and executing. We are seeing patterns of technology makeovers, or “digital transformation,” in three core areas. Digital transformation is the adoption of digital-first customer, business partner and employee experiences. In other words, these patterns have emerged as strategic drivers of technology-led business transformation, and these are aligned based on:

Industry needs
Domain or functional needs
Role-based needs
Let’s deep drive into each of the drivers:

Digital transformation driven by industry needs
The industry of a business will define the need and type of transformation and technology needed to drive value creation. An organization’s need for various types of datasets that they want to harvest, curate, orchestrate and guide in the types of AI/analytics models is highly dependent on the industry they operate in.

For example, the pandemic has upended manufacturing industries. There have been significant shifts in supply chains, workforce availability, and sustainability goals. Companies are rethinking their supply chains and operations to accelerate their digital transformation.

One such company, Reckitt, is one of the world’s most renowned and trusted consumer brands in hygiene, health and nutrition through their brands Lysol, Air Wick, Calgon and others. Reckitt partnered with IBM to deploy advanced technologies to connect and digitize their factories for Industry 4.0. The goal was to provide their workers the information they need to anticipate, predict and improve overall equipment effectiveness (OEE), energy efficiency and factory maintenance. These efforts, largely driven by industry trends, are helping Reckitt build resilience and agility to support evolving market demands for its products.

Read how Reckitt is building the factory of the future

Digital transformation driven by enterprise functional needs
Transformation is not always driven by outside forces. Many businesses look at functions such as customer processes, talent, or finance and supply chain operations, and reimagine them for efficiency, process optimization and cost management. A recent Gartner study reports that 82% of CFOs are accelerating their digital transformation to make their business more competitive.

The growing trend is all about deploying intelligent workflows, achieved through digitizing and automating workflows fueled by data. To accelerate these workflows and their outcomes, companies will need to embed technologies like automation, blockchain, AI and edge throughout, with data as the backbone. The benefits of activating intelligent workflows are significant. In a recent IBV report on the virtual enterprise, business leaders say AI-powered and automated workflows improve customer experience, efficiency and decision making.

IBM is deploying intelligent workflows to transform its own internal processes. IBM was able to save 4 million work hours by infusing automation and AI into 65% of workflows. This improved efficiency and decision making across finance, supply chain and customer processes.

Read more about IBM’s internal transformation

Transformation driven by line-of-business (LOB) leaders’ needs
We are seeing a major shift in technology purchasing power from IT to LOBs. In fact, according to IDC, the business-funded technology spend will surpass that funded by IT leaders by 2023. As LOB leaders are more involved in decision making, customer transformation and operations transformation, we are witnessing LOBs require curated data to support their analytics and insights. This makes it even more important to include technologies such as analytics and AI in overall business strategy underpinned by data. With both the IT and LOB stakeholders involved from the beginning, businesses will save time and money when designing a growth strategy.

CaixaBank, a major banking group in Spain and Portugal serves a 70.6% digital customer base. The company has focused on digital transformation to transition into a digital bank. Caixa partnered with IBM to deploy a Salesforce platform that helped efficiently manage the contact center, unify customer service channels and unify their technology platform — all with a focus on improving user experience for customers and agents. As the world is becoming hyper-digital, such customer transformation are increasingly being owned by LOB leaders.

Read how CaixaBank modernized its call center experience

 

Digital transformation is a must
Rapidly evolving technology makes it challenging for businesses to determine where to start and what role that technology should play in their growth strategy. In the race to innovate and drive sustainable growth, organizations must focus on leveraging technology within the context of industry, domain and role.

They must shift from deploying technology for technology’s sake, but rather make technology part of their overall business strategy within these three contexts. Businesses must structure their IT to move from a focus on cost cutting to a strategy around growth and value creation. In this new world, companies will come to rely not only on their IT departments, but on a new breed of strategic ecosystem technology partners to help them navigate new imperatives. These strategic partners can support the synthesis of strategy enabled by analytics, data, complex technology integration and business-transformation capabilities to drive industry-transforming human experiences.

Start your innovation and growth journey with IBM Consulting

Related Categories
Business transformation
Tags
digital transformation | CaixaBank | Reckitt
Trending
People in an office
Announcements May 11, 2023
IBM IT Automation: Reflections from IBM Think
3 min read - Recapping a few of the exciting new capabilities we are launching in our IT Automation portfolio.


Business transformation May 12, 2023
IBM and Microsoft partnership accelerates sustainable cloud modernization
4 min read - A global fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) enterprise needed to modernize its product portfolio, focusing on high-growth categories like pet care, coffee and consumer health. Its aggressive sustainability goals included achieving net zero emissions by 2050, making all packaging reusable or…

Watson Assistant AI
Announcements May 15, 2023
Transform digital experiences and unlock productivity with advanced generative AI
2 min read - Learn how we are unlocking new levels of productivity by introducing advanced generative AI into Watson Assistant use cases.

More from Banking
Mountains and fog
Cloud  
May 24, 2023
Kubernetes version 1.27 now available in IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service
< 1 min read - We are excited to announce the availability of Kubernetes version 1.27 for your clusters that are running in IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service. This is our 22nd release of Kubernetes. With our Kubernetes service, you can easily upgrade your clusters without the need for deep Kubernetes knowledge. When you deploy new clusters, the default Kubernetes version remains 1.25 (soon to be 1.26); you can also choose to immediately deploy version 1.27. Learn more about deploying clusters here. Kubernetes version 1.27 In…


Cloud  
May 24, 2023
Redefining the consumer experience: Diageo partners with SAP and IBM on global digital transformation
3 min read - In an era of evolving consumer preferences and economic uncertainties, the beverage industry stands as a vibrant reflection of changing trends and shifting priorities. Despite the challenges posed by inflation and the cost-of-living crisis, a dichotomy has emerged in consumer behavior, where individuals untouched by the crisis continue to indulge in their favorite beverages, while those directly affected pivot towards more affordable luxuries, such as a bottle of something special. This intriguing juxtaposition highlights the resilient nature of consumers and…

Smart transportation
Sustainability  
May 23, 2023
What is smart transportation?
5 min read - Every day, people encounter multiple obstacles while traveling to their intended destinations. Sitting in traffic, waiting for the bus to arrive 15 minutes later than scheduled, driving around for 30 minutes to find a parking spot—the modern world is full of inconveniences due to underlying inefficiencies in our transportation systems. However, stalled cars and harried people waiting for public transportation aren’t just an individual nuisance. A less-than-optimal transportation infrastructure affects the economy, hastens environmental impact and lowers the overall quality…

People in an office
Cloud  
May 23, 2023
IBM Cloud releases 2023 IBM Cloud for Financial Services Agreed-Upon Procedures (AUP) Report
2 min read - IBM Cloud completed its 2023 independent review of IBM Cloud services and processes. The review report demonstrates to its clients, partners and other interested parties that IBM Cloud services have implemented and adhere to the technical, administrative and physical control requirements of IBM Cloud Framework for Financial Services. What is the IBM Cloud Framework for Financial Services? IBM Cloud for Financial Services® is designed to build trust and enable a transparent public cloud ecosystem with features for security, compliance and…

United States — English
Products & Solutions
Top products & platforms
Industries
Artificial intelligence
Blockchain
Business operations
Cloud computing
Data & Analytics
Hybrid cloud
IT infrastructure
Security
Supply chain
Financing 
Learn about
What is Hybrid Cloud?
What is Artificial intelligence?
What is Cloud Computing?
What is Kubernetes?
What are Containers?
What is DevOps?
What is Machine Learning? 
Popular links
IBM Consulting
Communities
Developer education
Support - Download fixes, updates & drivers
IBM Research
Partner with us - Partner Plus
Training - Courses
Upcoming events & webinars 
About IBM
Annual report
Career opportunities
Corporate social responsibility
Diversity & inclusion
Industry analyst reports
Investor relations
News & announcements
Thought leadership
Security, privacy & trust
About IBM 
Follow IBM
LinkedIn
Twitter
Instagram
Subscription Center
Contact IBM
Privacy
Terms of use
Accessibilityf8328244e9e3b2a408c64941ae10
